# How to add prime fields

Follow this guide to add a new prime field for Tachyon.

_Note_: We have our own development conventions. Please read the [conventions doc](/docs/how_to_contribute/conventions.md) before contributing.

## 1. Add a `BUILD.bazel` file

Begin by creating a directory named `<new_prime_field>` in `/tachyon/math/finite_field/`. Add a `BUILD.bazel` file into this directory. Note that once parameters are added to `BUILD.bazel`, Bazel will automatically generate the prime field code based on these parameters when it builds the target.

### Prime field generator

Tachyon currently supports 2 kinds of prime fields.

- `Small Prime Field`: This prime field is used in the STARK protocol. It is generated when the modulus bit size is smaller than 32 bits. The config is generated based on [small_prime_field_config.h.tpl](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/generator/prime_field_generator/small_prime_field_config.h.tpl). If the prime field uses Montgomery Reduction, it is instantiated by [small_prime_field_mont.h](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/small_prime_field_mont.h); otherwise, it is instantiated by [small_prime_field.h](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/small_prime_field.h). The prime field for GPU is the same as the one for the CPU.
- `EC(Elliptic Curve) Based Prime Field`: This prime field is used in the SNARK protocol. It is generated when the modulus bit size is greater than or equal to 64 bits. The config is generated based on [prime_field_config.h.tpl](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/generator/prime_field_generator/prime_field_config.h.tpl). For x86, the prime field for the CPU is generated based on [prime_field_x86.h.tpl](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/generator/prime_field_generator/prime_field_x86.h.tpl); otherwise, it is generated by [prime_field_fallback.h](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/prime_field_fallback.h). The prime field for the GPU is instantiated by [prime_field_gpu.h](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/prime_field_gpu.h).

Choose the [prime field generator](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/generator/prime_field_generator/build_defs.bzl) depending on the prime field type. The list of required properties for each prime field generator is included below. Note that each successive field type in this list additionally requires all properties mentioned in previous generator types.

1. **`generate_prime_fields()`**:
   - `name`: The name of the prime field.
   - `namespace`: The selected namespace, commonly set as `tachyon::math`.
   - `class_name`: The name of the class, usually the same as the name of the prime field (in PascalCase).
   - `modulus`: The modulus value of the prime field.
   - `reduce32`: If the prime field uses a special reduction function, this property holds the string version of the code which overrides the default 32-bit reduction function.
   - `reduce64`: If the prime field uses a special reduction function, this property holds the string version of the code which overrides the default 64-bit reduction function.
   - `use_asm`: This flag indicates whether assembly is used. If `ffiasm` fails to generate the assembly code, setting this flag to false is recommended.
   - `use_montgomery`: This flag indicates whether the prime field uses Montgomery Reduction.
2. **`generate_fft_prime_fields()`**:
   - `subgroup_generator`: The value used to generate elements of a subgroup within the prime field, facilitating Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) operations.
     - _Note_: Every prime can be expressed in the following form: $p = 2^s * T + 1$, where $s$ and $T$ are integers, and $T$ is odd. According to Fermat's little Theorem, $a^{p-1} = 1 \mod p$ holds for any element $a$ in $F_p$. That is to say, $a^{2^s * T} = 1 \mod p$. A subgroup generator $g$ satisfies $(g^{2^{s-k} * T})^{2^k} = 1 \mod p$ for some $k \le s$, where $2^k = n$, making $\omega = g^{2^{s-k} * T}$ a $n$-th root of unity.
3. **`generate_large_fft_prime_fields()`**:
   - `small_subgroup_base`: Refers to the base element $b$ of a small subgroup.
   - `small_subgroup_adicity`: Refers to the largest adicity $a$ (the exponent of the base) of a small subgroup such that $b^a$ is a divisor of $T$.
     - _Note_: Large FFT prime fields can construct a larger domain than FFT prime fields through a small subgroup. Given `small_subgroup_base` = $b$ and `small_subgroup_adicity` = $a$, if $b^a$ is a divisor of $T$ and $g^{2^s * T} = 1 \mod p$, then $(g^{T/b^a})^{2^s*b^a} = 1 \mod p$. This manipulation enables a domain size up to $b^a$ times larger than the maximum domain size of $2^s$ that general FFT prime fields can create. Additionally, the $n$-th root of unity is now $\omega = g^{2^{s-k} * T/b^{a-q}}$, where $n = 2^k * b^{a-q} (k \le s, q \le a)$ since $\omega$ satisfies $\omega^{2^k * b^{a-q}} = (g^{2^{s-k} * T/b^{a-q}})^{2^k * b^{a-q}} = 1 \mod p$.

For instance, to implement a FFT prime field, create a directory (`/tachyon/math/finite_fields/<new_prime_field>`) and add a `BUILD.bazel` file as shown below:

```bazel
# /tachyon/math/finite_fields/<new_prime_field>/BUILD.bazel

load("@bazel_skylib//rules:common_settings.bzl", "string_flag")
load("//bazel:tachyon_cc.bzl", "tachyon_cc_library")
load(
    "//tachyon/math/finite_fields/generator/prime_field_generator:build_defs.bzl",
    "SUBGROUP_GENERATOR",
    "generate_fft_prime_fields", # NOTE: Choose generator type
)

package(default_visibility = ["//visibility:public"])

string_flag(
    name = SUBGROUP_GENERATOR,
    build_setting_default = "{subgroup_generator}", # input Subgroup generator value
)

generate_fft_prime_fields( # NOTE: Choose generator type
    name = "new_prime_field",
    namespace = "tachyon::math",
    class_name = "NewPrimeField",
    modulus = "{modulus_value}", # input modulus value
    subgroup_generator = ":" + SUBGROUP_GENERATOR,
)
```

Use the following files for reference:

- [Goldilocks `BUILD.bazel`](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/goldilocks/BUILD.bazel)
- [Mersenne31 `BUILD.bazel`](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/mersenne31/BUILD.bazel)

## 2. Add to `prime_field_generator_unittest.cc`

Finally, ensure the prime field works well by incorporating it into `prime_field_generator_unittest.cc` at the two points shown below:

```cpp
...
#include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/goldilocks/goldilocks_prime_field.h"
#include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/mersenne31/mersenne31.h"
// ADD NEW PRIME FIELD HEADER FILE HERE
// #include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/..."
...
// ADD NEW PRIME FIELD NAME HERE
using PrimeFieldTypes =
    testing::Types<bls12_381::Fq, bls12_381::Fr, bn254::Fq, bn254::Fr,
                   secp256k1::Fr, secp256k1::Fq, Goldilocks, Mersenne31 /*, NEW PRIME FIELD*/>;
...
```
